Has it given you some pause,
learning as you have that your
uncle could be so reformed?
It's confounding.
I couldn't have imagined
such a change.
And it could never have
happened if not for my power.
Your memories grow stronger.
They accumulate
in the fragments,
growing broader and deeper,
and with each new loop,
the world grows further
from what you once knew.
That's quite inconvenient.
In any case,
I think I'll be
able to get some use
out of this version of my uncle.
Are you not concerned?
You appear unfazed.
No, I don't imagine
my uncle becoming a hindrance.
The real issue.
That lies within the birdcage.
With this woman, in particular.
What's going on, Okonogi?
We've reached
the end of the line.
Tomitake made contact
with the Bloodhounds,
and now they're here.
[TAKANO]
The Bloodhounds?
Your Mountain Dogs
are spec ops too.
Why would you surrender
without a fight?
Is that a joke?
The Mountain Dogs are
counterintelligence.
We're spy hunters,
and the Bloodhounds
are an elite combat unit.
They'd have our number if this
thing turned into a gunfight.
What is this?
Tomitake is in our custody,
he shouldn't have been
able to reach them anyway.
What happened?
No, Major.
The Bloodhounds have
occupied the clinic,
and they set Tomitake
free when they arrived.
[TAKANO]
When the hell was that?
Why did nobody tell me?
Start talking, Okonogi!
Commander.
Priority communication.
Phoenix One, over.
[SOLDIER C]
Final orders from Cuckoo.
Execute plan CUCKOO.
Orders received.
This is an order to all units.
The command vehicle and
the clinic are compromised.
There will be no reinforcements
to our positions.
Cease all resistance
and surrender now.
[TAKANO]
What are you saying?
Hand over your weapons
and obey whatever
orders they give you.
This battle is a loss
for the Mountain Dogs.
It's not over!
Get me a line to Nomura
in Tokyo, right now!
I know she could get us a unit
to fend off these Bloodhounds!
And subject R is still alive!
We can carry out
the final operation!
We just have to get
in touch with her!
We still have time.
We can make this work Okonogi.
I know it!
If we recover the command
vehicle, there's a chance!
[OKONOGI]
No, Major.
Our final operation
has ended in failure.
Our work here is done,
and you may not have
realized it, but yours is, too.
What? Are you joking?
What the hell is going on?
[OKONOGI] You were assigned
to this post in hopes
that you'd make something
valuable out of that scrapbook.
What are you doing?
This scrapbook
contains the most‐‐
[OKONOGI] We know exactly
what it contains, Major.
It isn't worth a damn thing
to anyone in its own right.
What would you know about it?
Move your foot.
Immediately!
[OKONOGI] Our clients
wanted to generate binders
full of impenetrable jargon,
and your scrapbook looks
enough like real science
that they can cite back to it,
and nobody will question it.
On the off chance anybody
bothers reading those reports.
Your research offers us
plausible deniability.
Stop talking and
move your damn foot.
[OKONOGI] Nobody gives a
shit about these mountain hicks
or their brain worms.
Hinamizawa was just a chunk
of the game board to control.
Not anymore.
You burned everything of value,
and now this place is as
worthless as that old scrapbook.
I'm telling you, the scrapbook
isn't worthless, dammit!
Every word is true!
My grandfather was right,
and I picked up his research
from where he left off!
After all these years,
I understand the‐‐
[OKONOGI] Fortunately,
our clients in Tokyo were able
to find one final opportunity
for you to make yourself useful
before we all part ways.
Now.
Huh?
What are you saying?
I'm asking you to
blow your brains out
and give us a clean
ending to this story.
A good captain should always
go down with the ship.
The person responsible
for this travesty will be dead,
and the Mountain Dogs and our
clients will be off the hook.
You must be crazy if you think
I'll kill myself for
the sake of your clients!
In the end, it doesn't
matter who kills you.
Maybe I tried to talk you
into surrendering,
and you refused.
Maybe you decided you
could still put up a fight.
Of course I'd have to
defend myself, wouldn't I?
Honestly, after all the
years we've worked together,
I wanted to offer you the
dignity of ending it yourself.
No. I refuse to accept this!
I demand you tell me
who's responsible!
Let's just say
that if we got you
that line to Nomura in Tokyo,
the conversation wouldn't
go the way you'd like.
You might remember
her codename is "Cuckoo."
And if I recall correctly,
your codename is "Baby Bird."
[TAKANO]
No.
She couldn't.
Cuckoos invade
the nests of other birds
when they lay their eggs,
and once the
baby cuckoo hatches,
it immediately muscles
all the other eggs
and hatchlings out and
takes over the nest for itself.
The babies on the
ground are helpless.
There's nothing to save them
if they encounter
a wild mountain dog,
or a hunter's bloodhound.
[OKONOGI] Nobody's ever had
your back in this, Major.
[OKONOGI]
Here.
It means something to you.
Hold onto it.
[OKONOGI] Try and do it
with just your left hand.
You'll need your
right hand to use the gun.
There's one in the chamber.
In the mouth, not the temple,
and remember
to point back, not up.
[OKONOGI]
It's simple.
Just hold it steady
and squeeze the trigger.
[sobs]
[gunshot]
[gasps]
[phone rings]
[TAKANO]
Yes. This is Takano.
[NOMURA]
Been a while, hasn't it?
It's Nomura.
Ms. Nomura.
I'm always happy
to hear from you.
How can I be of assistance?
[NOMURA] I was hoping for
an update on your progress.
The date of the final operation
is rapidly approaching,
after all.
Yes, but I don't see
a reason to rush.
One might take that to mean
you have misgivings
about the plan.
[TAKANO]
No, not in the least.
Everything has gone
according to expectations.
[NOMURA]
I'm glad to hear that.
I wanted to remind you
that our groundwork
is fully in place.
You do understand
exactly what I mean
when I say that, do you not?
Yes. We can't turn back.
The plan is in motion,
and we won't stop
until we see it through.
That's incorrect.
It's true that the plan
is now very much in motion
and turning back
is no longer an option.
More importantly,
if that plan so much as hints
at veering from its course.
It will become necessary for us
to purge all
physical evidence of it.
That's what I mean.
This would also
involve us publicly
denigrating your
grandfather's research.
His work would be
dismissed as pseudoscience,
cementing his legacy as a
charlatan and a laughingstock.
[GRANDFATHER] These parasites
are unique to Hinamizawa, and‐‐
I was promised research,
and you hand me pulp fiction?
Please, I have more. Sir‐‐
We agreed to hear you out
as a favor to Professor Koizumi,
and now that that's done,
I think we can safely say
that what you're showing us
is unmitigated nonsense.
[RESEARCHER A] As a student
of the natural sciences,
I have no interest
in workshopping
your creative writing.
I share his disappointment,
sad to say.
But there're plenty of
other ways to occupy yourself
in your twilight years.
Perhaps you've
considered bonsai?
Just as productive.
And calming!
Dear, me.
I find our colleagues'
words a bit uncharitable.
I know some publishers
who might be interested in you.
This kind of piece does well
with less discerning audiences.
[laughter]
[RESEARCHER B] You could
get a screenplay worked up!
If you'd kindly take back
your work product.
I can't, in good conscience,
refer to it as "research,"
but whatever it is,
I believe I've seen
quite enough of it.
[TAKANO]
No! Quit it!
Quit stepping on it!
Stop it. Please.
It's important.
Grandpa worked hard on this!
[cries]
Please. Don't step on it!
It means so much to him!
[GRANDFATHER] Do excuse
my granddaughter's behavior.
Thank you all
very much for your time.
[GRANDFATHER]
I'm sorry.
It wasn't me alone.
You put your heart
into this work too, Miyo,
and in the end,
it all went to waste.
Forgive me, please.
Grandpa.
[NOMURA]
Needless to say,
you would never allow
that to happen, would you?
[TAKANO]
No. Of course not.
[NOMURA] Good. I'm glad
to hear that all is well.
[chuckles]
Moving on.
Our friend Lieutenant Tomitake's
set to arrive soon.
He will play a vital role
in the opening phase.
Proceed as planned.
Those are your orders.
All preparations are in place,
and next, we're to dose him
with H173 in the guise
of a prophylactic.
[NOMURA]
To the letter.
This operation hinges
on Tomitake dying
under shady circumstances.
I expect we'll be
speaking again soon.
Pardon me!
I promise it wasn't my
intention to sneak up on you!
I had no intention of
being snuck up on, either.
Is there something
I can help you with?
Actually.
Satoko is coming in
for a checkup
later this afternoon.
I'd been planning
to get ready for that.
What's this?
A photo album?
[TAKANO]
Yes.
My grandfather's.
Your grandfather's.
Is that right?
I believe I recall you
mentioning your parents before.
I haven't looked at it in years.
I put it away back when he died,
and I've never
gotten it out since.
And then, today,
for some reason,
I felt compelled
to reach for it.
In hindsight, I might have
been acting childish, but...
You see,
I promised that until the day
I made our dream come true,
I'd never open this album again.
[IRIE] A dream you shared
with your grandfather, then?
[exhales]
I'm not sure what came over me.
Somehow, I couldn't help
breaking that promise.
I needed to see
his smile so badly.
You can take your time.
I'll take care of the prep work.
If anything comes up,
I'll be in the exam room.
[SATOKO]
I know it's a weekly event.
But having to get a checkup
on my day off
doesn't seem fair to me.
[RIKA]
It's important!
Irie needs to
track your progress.
That way, we can make sure
the medicine is still working.
Considering how long
I've been taking it,
I should hope it is.
And to this day,
I have no idea what they've
been injecting me with.
Me neither.
I hadn't even
thought about asking.
But maybe Irie would
be able to tell you!
Ni‐paa!
You're truly
the best liar I know.
[TAKANO]
Okay, last one.
Ready, Satoko?
What do you see?
[SATOKO]
A pair of butterflies.
They've been separated
for far too long,
and now they're terribly happy
they've finally been reunited.
My, what a lovely thought.
These results are splendid.
How wonderful to hear that.
I suppose we can say
that the coach's medicine
has been effective.
As effective as
we could have hoped for.
Your last injection
may not be far off now.
If that's true, then the last
of these insufferable checkups
will be close behind.
[chuckles]
I understand our visits
aren't much fun for you.
Or perhaps, your objection
is to me, personally?
Oh no.
My objection's purely
to the checkups.
Heh. Well, that's a relief.
Anyway,
I've been considering
giving up my job here.
What?
[GRANDFATHER]
"For the time being.
I still have the
wherewithal to stand
against the progression
of this disease.
Before long,
as it ravages my brain,
it will take everything
from me that I hold dear.
But for now, I am of sound mind,
and I still know you are
my precious granddaughter.
So I must gather my thoughts,
while I still have them.
You've grown into a brilliant,
capable young woman.
I can't overstate
the joy I feel for knowing
you mean to continue my work
and accomplish what I could not.
But within that joy
is a tinge of worry,
that in becoming so enveloped
in my life and research,
you may inadvertently
pass by those things
which might make
you truly happy.
To see that would turn
my joy to unbearable sorrow.
I want you to do
what brings you joy,
and I would sooner see
my research abandoned
than have you suffer for it.
Yet you've been eagerly
pursuing medicine
in hopes of continuing it.
I feared that by
voicing my concerns.
I would be saddling you
with my doubt,
and for that,
you would only suffer more.
Ultimately, only fate knows
which burden will weigh heavier.
Should you read this letter.
I hope you will
take it to heart.
My dearest wish is that
you one day find happiness.
But in my weakness,
I must leave it to the whims
of fate to make it so.
For this,
I beg your forgiveness.
To my beloved Miyo.
Your grandpa, Hifumi Takano."
I can't guess at
your circumstances.
But do you really plan
on quitting this job?
I'm still just considering.
I'm nowhere near a decision yet.
The thing is,
my employers' goals
and my own may be at odds,
and I think they've been
twisting my passion
for my work toward
their own ends.
After that, they'll dispose
of you like the trimmings
and bones after the stock
is done simmering, right?
I suspect they plan
to do just that.
Once the stock is made,
of course you would
throw those things away.
Come now. Those ingredients
may still have a use.
Perhaps it's simply
a matter of finding one!
[laughs]
You have a fair point there,
but if you're trying
to make more stock,
you're not likely to get it done
with a used‐up
batch of ingredients.
[SATOKO]
I suppose that's true.
The question is, what are
my options after all this?
Look at me.
I'm way out of my depth, here.
[MION]
Kei!
‐‐Get a move on already!
‐‐Yeah!
Hurry, or Rika's dance is gonna
start before we get there!
Yeah, I'm trying to hurry.
It's just,
a million people decided
to show up all of a sudden!
[chortles]
Your excuses are weaker
than your skills, Keiichi!
I can hardly imagine you
becoming president of our club!
Wait. Me, becoming
president of our club?
Who said anything about that?
Anyway, if you'll pardon me.
[MION] Hurry up or
we're gonna ditch you, Kei!
[RENA] Awoo!
I believe in you, Keiichi!
What the hell, guys!
You know getting mad's
not gonna help, Keiichi,
you just gotta get moving!
[yells]
[pants]
I made it through somehow.
Good job, buddy.
Where did Satoko run off to?
So she left me in the crowd,
and now she's not even here?
I do not understand that kid.
She'll be watching it
from somewhere.
Yeah! There's no way Satoko's
gonna miss Rika's dance.
[TAKANO]
Thanks for waiting.
[TOMITAKE]
Are you satisfied?
I am, and I think I can move
forward now with no regrets.
Though you really should
have taken a peek too.
[TOMITAKE chuckles]
Everything in me was saying,
"Don't do it." Anyway,
I was about to head down
and get some pictures
of the cotton drifting.
Would you like to come with me?
[TAKANO]
Hey, Jiro?
[TOMITAKE]
Hmm?
[TAKANO] There's something very
important I need to tell you.
Wha...? Okay. [laughs]
What is it?
[TAKANO] I seem to have
gotten myself wrapped up
in a bit of a conspiracy.
"The final operation."
That's what they're calling it.
[SOLDIER D]
Retriever Leader to all units.
Report in when target
sites are occupied.
I repeat,
Retriever Leader to all units.
Report in when
target sites are occupied.
[EUA] You've created
a world where the rules,
which had given rise
to the cat's tragedy
are no longer in effect.
[laughs]
Fascinating!
In granting you
the use of my power,
I never expected you
to employ it so creatively.
[SATOKO] This isn't
something to laugh about.
[EUA]
Hmm?
Rika's longing to
escape made her world
a birdcage that
held her for a century.
But my longing for her
to stay opens the birdcage,
and she inevitably flies away.
Wishes don't easily come true
for any of us in Hinamizawa.
And as I've told you before,
changes such as
these are irreversible.
The accumulation of memories
caused the birdcage to weaken.
In no world is it certain
to withstand the
cat's efforts to flee.
[SATOKO]
It's unforgivable.
Rika was anointed to serve as
a priestess to the god Oyashiro.
Abandoning the village
is a grievous sin.
Yes, and punishing
her is my duty.
Oh! I see.
Then you'll take on
the name of Oyashiro
and unleash your
curse upon the cat.
Indeed.
I'll be the one to
ensnare Rika once again
in an endless cycle of tragedy.
Through that tragedy,
she'll come to understand.
That with the sin of abandoning
Hinamizawa in her heart,
she binds herself to an
eternity of misery and loss.
[EUA chuckles]
Then you've come to understand
that Takano has given up
on her pursuit of godhood,
and in response, you've
begun pursuing it for yourself!
May your amusements never cease.
Now then.
You, who have taken
the name, "Oyashiro."
By what means shall you
put your curse into effect?
I've calculated it
down to the last detail.
[TOMITAKE laughs]
I'd honestly planned to do that
the second I walked out of here.
I didn't figure you'd come
this far just for an injection.
The only shots you really care
about are your bird photos.
[laughs]
Wait for me here.
I need to get ready.
[TAKANO]
I'm so sorry.
I forgot the prophylactic
in my room.
I promise I'll be quick.
Sure.
[EUA] Now the tragedy shall
strike only at your whim.
And, it shall be you
who decides through
whom your wrath manifests.
Does the weight of your actions
truly bear not at all
upon your conscience?
[SATOKO]
They weigh nothing.
Once I've brought
about the world
where Rika and
I can remain together,
there will be no
more tragedy to suffer.
[SATOKO]
And once I reach that world,
my deeds in the worlds before
it ceases to mean anything.
The real world is that
which satisfies me.
The others are
dreams and illusions.
Why would I feel any
remorse over some actions
I only took in a dream?
[EUA] In your journey
through the loops,
your disposition and talents
will undoubtedly serve
you quite well.
You can't still be surprised,
can you, Eua?
[SATOKO]
I choose to win,
and at that moment,
my victory is sealed.
I'm choosing a future in
Hinamizawa with Rika at my side,
and I will not
give up on that future.
Indeed.
I will bring it about,
with utmost certainty.
We will be together
again soon, Rika.
My sweet, beloved Rika!
The world we want
is almost in reach.
Our happiness is coming!
[RIKA] Next time:
Higurashi no Naku Koro ni SOTSU.